Scene: 1 Dream

I look at them, but none of them help.
Though, that one, I remember that one,
he read that one to me before they took him.
I open it and look at its pages
~
remembering him, and his voice when he read it.
"Lord Emperor Tirus of Third Imperial Province
decreed the assemblance of the legions..."
His voice had read to me.
~
"Oh father! Why did you have to leave?"
I think and sit, my eyes beginning to water.
I read it myself this time, I didn't understand
it when I was young but I always wanted to.

Scene: 2 Father

In her dreams, “My father holds my small hand as he
takes me through the festival. ‘Where are we going?’ I think.
It’s very cold, and I begin to shiver. ‘I’m cold, father.’ I say.
‘We’re almost there, Caia.’ He replies.
~
We arrive at a merchant and my father buys drinks from him.
I drink mine, its hot and sweet like summer. ‘I need to tell you,
something Caia.’ My father speaks gravely. ‘What is it?’ I wonder.
‘The emperor is fighting a new war far away, and I’ve been recruited.’
~
‘What do mean? Do you have to leave?’ I ask, confused.
His face is sullen but softened. ‘Yes, Caia. I have to leave.’”

Scene: 3 Leave

In her dreams, “I weep bitterly. ‘Why do you have to go father?’ I had asked.
‘I don’t want to, but I don’t know another way.’ He had said. ‘Caia! They’re here!’
My brother calls. I wipe my face and descend the stairs. I walk outside
and I see them.
~
Many calvary pass by on the stone road. My father stands in his armor in
front. I run up to him, and he sees me. ‘Caia, have you seen the horses,
they’re pretty aren’t they?’ He asks. I watch them for a moment, then many men
on foot walk past holding strange objects. ‘Those are lictors, Caia, they hold
the symbols of the emperor’s power.’ Then I see him.
~
The emperor dismounts his horse and walks up to my father and me.
‘Lord Emperor, I am honored that you admit me directly.’ My father says.
‘Sir Claudius, you are a great man. I’ve heard many things about you.’ The emperor states
gratefully. ‘Please, join your fellow soldiers.’ My father obeys and says goodbye
to my family and me. But the emperor remains.
~
‘Caia,’ the emperor speaks softly. ’I know you are greatly saddened.
But if you pursue virtue and seek greatness, your life will be full
and you will be greatly empowered.’”

Scene: 4 Republic

“In antiquity, the Republic was inert and powerless.
The Senate was fractured, its senators were always will-less.
The people sought only to slay them utterly.”
–Records from Historium Imperium

Scene: 5 Her Pursuit

In her dreams, “I walk along the wooden fence. My mind deep in
thought. I remember walking with my father here many times. 
But my mind remembers the emperor. The words the emperor spoke to me. 
‘Pursue virtue and seek greatness and you will be greatly empowered.’ 
I feel a deep yearning within me. My heart, it clings to these words.”

Scene: 6 Senate Ignore

“The voices of the people were loud and expressive.
But the Senate was a moral-less body, only concerned 
with its own frivolous vanity. It decided that it 
would never listen to the lesser.”
–Records from Historium Imperium

Scene: 7 Don’t Know

In her dreams, “’I don’t know, Caia.’ My mother replies.
‘But, I want one. Do they sell them in the market?’ I ask.
‘I don’t know anything about those. I’ve only heard about them
from your father. I’ve never seen one myself.’ She says.”

Scene: 8 Strange Man

In her dreams, “I see a strange man enter an inn. I follow him. 
I see, he has one. I walk timidly to him. ‘Excuse me, is that
a book?’ He looks at me peculiarly. His face hard and cruel.
~
‘It is. How did you know?’ He asks. ‘My father told me that wise
men read.’ The man smiles. ‘Indeed, you are right. Would you like
me to make you a little wiser?’ He asks. I agree and he reads to me
for a little while until he leaves.”

Scene: 9 Princeps

“The princeps, the senator of senators, 
was greatly moved by the desires of the people.
He went to them, and listened to all of their voices.
He greatly spoke among them, and taught them much wisdom.”
–Records from Historium Imperium

Scene: 10 Emperor

“The people were astonished and their astonishment
stirred within them great admiration. They said in
their hearts, ‘He is like a father to us, he is like a
mentor.’
~
Thus, they moved with fervor and made the
princeps an emperor that he should rule
over them and direct them.”
–Records from Historium Imperium

Scene: 11 Market

In her dreams, “I walk in the market. People move around
me as it gets more crowded. I look all around for a merchant
that sells books, but I don’t see any. I ask a man, ‘Excuse me,
does anyone sell books?’ But he ignores me. I continue on. I look 
at all the shops but I don’t find what I’m looking for.
‘They must be rare,’ I think.
~
I walk on, but a man shoves me to ground and my money spills out.
I try to gather it quickly but then a boy grabs some and runs off.
I get up and chase him. I try to get to him but I lose him. I walk
tiredly, realizing I’m in the outskirts of the market.
~
A man appears in front of me. He has a book in his hand.
‘Excuse me, where did you buy that?’ I ask. He looks at me
harshly. He continues on. ‘Please! I want to buy one!’ I exclaim.
He turns. ‘You can’t afford one. Only imperial officials and the wealthy 
~
purchase these.’ He declares. ‘How much is it? I’ll work up the money.’ I say.
‘The cost for my work is 6,451 sestertii. If you pay me that I’ll write
a copy for you.’ He says. I’m shocked but I resolve myself. 
‘I’ll do it.’ I say.”

Scene: 12 Dark Heir

“The emperor was exceedingly shocked by the people.
‘These men! I abhor this power! I must deprecate myself immediately
and release this barbaric burden from my back before I die
and leave it to some foolish, dark heir!’ He would say.”
–Records from Historium Imperium

Scene: 13 New Form

“The emperor decided to found a new form of government.
‘We must destroy this atrocity before it destroys us!’ He
had said to his advisors. ‘I want strength without weakness,
authority without tyranny, power without might.’ He had commanded.”
–Records from Historium Imperium

Scene: 14 The Emprate

“The empire was fully assembled. The emperor spoke completely.
‘A great darkness lingers around us, within us, through us. A darkness
that has existed forever and never dies because it is death itself.
For when we think we destroy it, it only transforms into a new enemy,
one that we are unequipped to conquer in every present moment.’
He had begun.
~
‘Even with my great power, I cannot slay it. If only one had
the power to do such an absolute action could we be fully unified.
However, with death’s persistence, I must as emperor protect you
from its dark forms as powerfully as possible.
~
Therefore, I propose a new form of rule. One that will
retain both strengths of the republic and the empire
into a greater form of order and direction.’ He had spoken.
~
He then decreed into law, the Emprate, and laid down
his power. The people rejoiced and were greatly
satisfied with their new order.”
-Records from Historium Imperium

Scene: 15 Money

In her dreams, “‘It’s been so long.’ I think. ‘I remember
when I first started.’ I imagine it. So much work, but I’ve done it.
‘The tales I remember being read. I’ll have them soon.’ I reflect.
I count my coins. Each one represents animals, eggs, meat, anything
extra from this farm that I sold. ‘But it’s worth it.’ I tell myself.”

Scene: 16 Mother

In her dreams, “‘You can use that money for other things, Caia.’ My mother
says. I feel rage boil within me, but I refuse its display. ‘I want this, mother.
I would not have earned this to spend it on lesser things.’ I state.
‘You’re being foolish. What does a book profit you? I’ve never needed them.’ She
retorts. I ignore her and leave.”

Scene: 17 Nominated Heir

“A nominated heir cannot be a relation of the nominating emperor,
	nor can the heir have any connections with the other emperors.”
–Statutes of the Emprate

Scene: 18 Buy Book

In her dreams, “I find the house of the imperial scribe.
I knock and he appears. ‘Good evening, can I still buy a book from you?’
I ask politely. The scribe is astonished. ‘That was years ago.’ He states,
and ushers me in. ‘I have the money. Will you do it?’ I ask.‘
~
Yes, I will, however, I’ve been burdened by the magistrates with significant
work. Thus I will have to charge a higher price of 9,677 sestertii.’ He says. 
‘What?!’ I exclaim. ‘Can you not afford it?’ He states, plainly. 
~
‘I can. I-I can.’ I say, forcefully. ‘Good, then I’m glad we 
can make a deal. It will take me a year to produce.’ 
He says. I am outraged, but I conceal it. ‘I must be calm, 
I must get this!’ I think. ‘Let it be done.’ I say and pay him.  

Scene: 19 Farlands

“It is a place of great evil. One must avoid it.
Over the course of our great Emprate and even before
in the time of antiquity we faced tremendous and ill-weakened
foes from that region.
~
Though, I never-could-would venture that far. In the farlands
beyond the ancient-desolate provinces–dare I even write of them!–
there was mentioned a permanent darkness. 
~
A night that never was persuaded by the light. 
Be careful future emperors, your enemy is hidden, 
for he is dark, and who can see him!”
–Lord Emperor Marius of the Third Imperial Province

Scene: 20 Aemilia

In her dreams, “‘What is a book?’ My little sister asks.
‘It’s like a large collection of stories.’ I say.
We walk along the wooden fence to the pasture.
‘What kind of stories?’ She asks. ‘About our history,
about the past.’ I say. ‘Will you tell me them?’ She asks.
‘Of course I will.’ I smile. ‘I’ve told you every story
I know so far, haven’t I?’ I say.”

Scene: 21 Thief

In her dreams, “A messenger arrives. He is from the scribe
and informs me the book is done. My heart leaps and I leave quickly.
I travel on the road, but I’m blocked at the intersection by marching
legions. ‘Another recruitment.’ I think. I take a different path around.
I approach the scribe’s house from the back road. I look over and notice
something strange.
~
The house looks ransacked and in disarray. I run over to the front.
The door is ajar. I walk in and it’s a mess. I feel terror. ‘What’s
happened!’ I think. I run to look out the back. I hear clashing of metal.
I see a sword and grab it. I walk outside and I see two men fighting 
near the forest.
~
I run over. ‘A thief!’ I realize. The thief slashes forward and knocks
the scribe unconscious. ‘Stop!’ I yell. My sword to his neck.
He looks at me surprised. ‘Put your sword down.’ I command. But the 
thief slides back and slashes my sword. I move back and he stabs forward.
I slash his blade away, and retreat further. He swirls and swings hard. 
~
I brace with both hands, and his sword clangs loudly. I hold with all
my strength but he is stronger than me. My strength gives out and his
blade lightly slices across my body. The pain streaks across me. He 
prepares another swing. I stumble back dazed, holding my hand out.
His blade slices it harshly and I collapse to the ground.
~
I try to swing in the defense but he hits my sword hard disarming
me. I craw back but he holds his blade to my neck. He pauses. I look at
him, he looks familiar. ‘What do you want?’ I ask. He pauses but says nothing.
~
‘What do you want?’ I repeat. I look at him again, there is something
strange about him. I look at his hand, it’s blackened.
‘The life of i–i–’ He stutters and begins to convulse erratically.
I crawl back and he turns black. His body becomes weak and collapses
completely.
~
I get up meekly. The pain in my hand and across my body flares.
After sometime, the scribe and I recover in his house. 
He presents me the book. I hold it in my hands, and my joy is full.
‘Finally!’ I think. ‘Now, I can be wise!’”

Scene: 22 New Emperors

“The people loved their emperors that reigned within
their own provinces. A purer form that they had sought,
they had achieved. And a system by which they could
themselves become emperors if their ambitions gained
them such greatness.”
–Records from Historium Imperium

Scene: 23 Learning

In her dreams, “‘th-the Lor-d,’ I read poorly. I persist, but
become frustrated. ‘Why is this so hard?’ I think. I try again,
‘the Lord Em-per.’ That’s better. ‘The Lord Emperor Cas-si-us 
comm-an-d-ed.’ I continue. ‘You can’t even read it!’ My mother
says. 
~
I look up at her across the room. ‘I can. I just need
practice.’ I reply. ‘For the time you’ve spent reading a
worthless book you could have been working in the farm.
You could’ve made more money, but instead you spent it
on that!’ She retorts and walks out.”

Scene: 24 Order

“The order of an emperor, the decrees made by one man,
this was what they craved. A rapidity that was never
possible in the dead Republic. Every person increased
their confidence and their spirits were highly lifted
in this time of control.”
–Records from Historium Imperium

Scene: 25 Greatness

“The Emprate–truly a great, unmatched institution–has
rarely seen violence or bloodshed within since its 
wondrous founding. A direct and vividly clear demonstration
of our shared observation of its profound excellency.
~
I proclaim as Lord Emperor, that with all available
and potential power, one must with absolution preserve our
crystalline rule and civilization to the uttermost limit.”
–Lord Emperor Cornelius of the First Imperial Province

Scene: 26 Mother hates book

In her dreams, “‘and the emperor was nullified by the Senate.
His actions were strange–’ I read, but I hear footsteps in the
grass. ‘Caia!’ My little sister exclaims. ‘I found you!’ She runs over 
and sits in my lap. ‘Why are all the way out here?’ She asks. 
I stroke her hair. ‘Mother doesn’t like my book.’ I say.”

Scene: 27 Dark Magic

“In the farlands, as I stated previously, there is a
great darkness. From this darkness has arisen a new thing.
One must be careful of it–for many deny it. This ‘thing’
is nearly like what the master emperor had spoken of.
~
A horrific thing, utterly terrible to consider. I’ve heard
many names for it–many unspoken of. But I’ve heard it
rudely called ‘dark magic.’ A stupid name for it, it does not
remotely quantify its hellish, murderous, traitorous, tyrannical
effect on a man. A great enemy this is!”
–Lord Emperor Marius of the Third Imperial Province

Scene: 28 Fight

In her dreams, “‘The Lord Emperor Crassus of the First Imperial Province
decreed that a wall should be built on the frontier. And th–’
‘Wait! What’s a proovins?’ My little sister asks. I smile.
‘A province is a place where an emperor rules.’ I say. ‘We live in one.’
‘Really?’ Her eyes light up. ‘Caia!’ I hear. I look out and it’s my mother.
~
I brace myself. ‘What are you doing?’ She asks. ‘Reading to Aemilia.’ I say.
‘I want you sell it.’ She says harshly. ‘Why? It’s just a book!’ I declare.
‘Don’t question me! I told you to sell it!’ She yells. ‘No! I will not!’ I scream.
~
My mother is stunned. ‘I don’t understand your obsession with this book. Why don’t
you leave me alone!’ I retort. ‘Because you almost died because of that book!’ She 
claims. ‘I almost died because of a thief! There are thieves everywhere, wars everywhere,
just because the book–’ She interrupts, ‘The book attracts the thieves!’
~
‘Everything attracts thieves! You fool!’ I scream. Her face becomes placid.
’Take your things and leave!’ She commands. I’m shocked, yet I feel relieved. 
‘Fine. I will and I’m taking Aemilia with me.’ I say. ‘What! No you’re not!’ She yells.
~
‘Let’s go Aemilia.’ I say to my sister. She looks between my mother and me.
‘Let’s go.’ I say. ‘Stay with me, Aemilia!’ My mother states.
She looks at me takes my hand and we leave.”

Scene: 29 Weak Union

“For all of the luster of the Emprate, its glory was
never boundless, and therefore its limits perceivable.
The Lord Emperors lacked unification and thus would
face many intersecting goals.
~
The Emprate was rarely an absolute unit, by fault of
the four dominate provinces’ co-equality. Though, the
Senate can destroy emperors it cannot compel them.
~
This weak union is proving dangerously for the war.
The wars before did challenge us but not as fiercely. 
I sense, the people’s hate is beginning to rewaken,
for it despised a lack of control.”
–Princeps Atticus of the Senatorial Province

Scene: 30 Scribe’s House

In her dreams, “We travel to the scribe’s house with our things.
I knock and he appears. I greet him and say, ‘We need a place to stay. 
I can’t pay you though. I have no money.’ 
He agrees. ‘You saved my life. That is worth something.’”

Scene: 31 Work

In her dreams, “‘You can work on my farm for rent.’ The scribe says.
I look at the animals, the herd of sheep led by a worker. 
‘I have a few workers currently, but they can use help.’ He continues. 
~
I notice my sister playing with a little lamb. 
‘Have you found a friend, Aemilia?’ I ask. The lamb runs from
her then trips, falling into the grass. ‘I think I’ll call him, Stumby.’ She
says. I turn to the scribe. ‘We’d be glad to help.’ I reply.”

Scene: 32 Nullified

In her dreams, “‘Ah, yes! The nullification of the Lord Emperor Cassius.
The greatness of the Emprate at work.’ He states. ‘Why did he become tyrannical?’
I ask. ‘Good question. It is a mystery, the only one to become so.’ He states.
‘Why?’ My sister asks. ‘Well, in the Emprate the emperors can be checked.
That’s why the very first emperor laid down his power and created this system.’
He says.
~
‘What happened to him?’ I ask. ‘He was exiled.’ He says. ‘What else?’
I press. ‘I’m unsure. There are strange tales about him. But I don’t know
anything else.’ He says, timidly. ‘Nevertheless, it’s gotten too late.
But it was an interesting discussion. Please, continue with your
reading and I will do my best to assist.’ He states.”

Scene: 33 Sole Emperor

“The people are growing weary. Beyond the frontier,
the battles have been stalled in perpetual place.
Unmoving, they have been but we must persist, I
have encouraged.
~
But they react unevenly to what I hoped to expect.
I’ve heard them, rumors, that they desire stronger
authority, greater unity. ‘After antiquity, there
was an empire, a singular emperor,’ they remember.”
–Princeps Atticus of the Senatorial Province

Scene: 34 Hurt

In her dreams, “‘I’ve heard in the forum. An imperial 
censor has gone out.’ A worker says. We watch the sheep 
as the shepherd leads them. ‘What does this censor 
look for?’ I ask. ‘Some men said it was a direct 
order from the emperor, look–’ He cuts off. 
’Time for work!’ The work mistress yells.
~
I return to helping clean out the animal stalls.
The other worker has already finished his side.
I hear someone behind me. ‘You’ve lagged behind,
girl.’ The mistress states. 
~
‘I’ll work faster.’ I say. I speed up my pace. 
I finish a few stalls in succession, feeling a slight 
relief. I enter the next and it is disgusting.
I brush harshly the gross filth on the floor.
~
It’s caked and cemented and won’t break down. 
I scrub as hard as I can. ‘Ow!’ I yell. 
I look at my hand, my scar writhes. I try to
continue, but my hand inhibits me. I become
nervous but try to push through. I break down,
‘I- can’t. My hand!’ I think.”

Scene: 35 Assurance

In her dreams, “I read. My tenth time through, 
and I feel that I understand still very little. 
‘Caia.’ My sister wakes. ‘Yes.’ I say. 
‘Will we stay?’ She asks.
~
I remember my hand and the day before.
‘I hope so.’ I say, looking down.
She cries. ‘I don’t want to go home!
I like it here!’ She weeps.
~
‘Aemilia! It’s okay. We’re here.
We’re not going back.’ I say. ‘Are you 
sure?’ She asks, looking at me. ‘I’ll do
the best I can.’ I say.”

Scene: 36 Escape

In her dreams, “I return from working on the farm.
I look up at the horizon and at the house. There are
many people that I’ve never seen before. I approach
then suddenly realize. ‘It’s my mother! She has
soldiers!’ I gasp.
~
I run and hide in the forest. ‘Aemilia!’ I think
and spy out where she is. I feel a tug on my
clothes. I look down and its her. ‘What’s going on?’
I whisper. ‘Mother’s coming for us.’ She answers.
~
‘We have to leave.’ I say. I take her hand
and venture into the forest. ‘Where are we
going?’ She asks. ‘I don’t know. But we’ll
find a place.’ I say.”

Scene: 37 Hide

In her dreams, “We travel far and have passed
through the forest into great plains. We walk
then climb a small hill. ‘I’m tired.’ My sister
says. ‘We’ll find somewhere.’ I encourage.
~
I look back. ‘Oh no!’ I gasp. I see men emerge
from the forest far off. ‘It’s her!’ My sister
says. I grab her hand and we run over the top
of the hill to be concealed.”

Scene: 38 Dark Forest

In her dreams, “We run down the hill and up
a higher one. I look back and feel relieved
at the hill’s blankness. We run along the
high hill and enter a dark forest.
~
‘Stop!’ My sister cries. ‘We have keep going.’
I say. ‘I’m tired. I need a break.’ She says.
‘Fine, but we can only stay for a moment.’ I say.
We sit in the grass. It’s getting very dark.
‘Are you ready?’ I ask. ‘No.’ She says.
~
‘We have to go now.’ I say. She gets up and
we continue on. We run deeper into the forest
and it becomes hard to see. ‘I can’t see!’ My sister says. 
~
We step carefully and quietly. ‘Ah!’ My sister screams. 
I look over and she’s fallen down a slope. 
‘Caia!’ I hear. ‘I’m coming.’ I reply. 
I feel my way through the branches
and brush. But as I walk along, I feel a dark
form shadow me.”

Scene: 39 Dread

In her dreams, “I pause. I feel it, a dark
presence. The darkness creeps around me, it
feels heavy and thick. I hear a footstep
behind me close to me. I run! ‘Run Aemilia!’
I shout.
~
I run quickly and I hear it galloping behind.
The branches scrap me as I fail to see. I notice
a log in the moonlight. I leap up it and over.
I continue to run but realize it’s gone.
~
I walk out of the forest. I collapse in weariness.
I feel exhausted and worn out. ‘I- can barely,
barely breath.’ I think. I fall onto my back.
My heart beats rapidly and my head spins like
the world has no restraint.
~
A thousand moments seem to pass. I get up in
horror. ‘Aemilia! I have to find her!’ I fear.
I rise and enter the forest again. My fear
transforms into dread. But I determine
in myself. ‘I must find her. I will not
let her die!’”

Scene: 40 Desire

“The people have become enamored with
this idea. A sole emperor, a strange concept to say
the least. Yet, their hearts have wrapped their tendrils
around it, desperate for it to be real. ‘A supreme emperor,’
they say, ‘that is what we desire!’”
–Senator Tiberius of the Senatorial Province

Scene: 41 Murder

In her dreams, “I find the log again. A gate
into a dark place, it seems. I climb onto
it. I look out and see only evil trees
and tainted brush. My dread and guilt
collide within me. ‘I must find her quickly!’
I think.
~
I slide off the log and creep meekly.
I take many steps and wander far, but 
I remember nothing and have no sense of
place. ‘Aemilia.’ I whisper. ‘Aemilia.’
I say. The darkness remains silent, 
and the trees hinder me.
~
‘What if I can’t find her.’ I despair. I
feel the trees and the branches as I persist.
‘We should’ve stayed or gone somewhere else.’
I reflect. The branches are harsh and are hard
to avoid. ‘I’m such a fool! Why did I pursue this?
It’s my fault! My error!’ I cry in my heart.
~
I reach a place that seems familiar. The branches
have strips of my clothes on them as I pass.
‘I hate her! That cruel woman! She is the tyrant!
She is the evil form! She is the beast! A foul,
disgusting, tainting, vile beast from the farlands
itself!’ I rage.
~
‘I will murder her! I will murder the beast! Even
if it kills me, I will save my sister from death itself!’
I resolve. My mind becomes sharp, and my sight piercing.
I hear a branch break, and I look for its place.
~
‘Foolish, stupid. You’ve always been that way.
You never wanted to learn, never wanted to change,
never wanted to live! You idiot, you dumb peasant.
~
Father never loved you, he loved me. He wanted to leave
you but stay with me. I’ve become far better than you,
far better than you could have ever been! And now I
will slay you, I will kill death itself!’ I shout in
my heart.
~
The beast wanders blindly. It stumbles and bites
the air. ‘I need no blade. Wisdom is my sword. I
need no help. Greatness is my power!’ I think.
I sneak behind the beast, holding a stone. It
stops and sniffs. ‘Breathe in your last breaths
you idiot!’ I think.
~
It turns to me. It looks at me but can’t see me.
I throw the stone away from its side. It charges
at it and I run and leap onto its back, wrapping
my arms around its throat. It writhes and whirls
but I hold firm and choke its neck hard.
~
It growls and roars but I hold it with my
legs and press harder at its throat. It wrestles
strongly but weakens, then faints. I get up
off it and take the stone and bash its head,
until its broken open.”

Scene: 42 Sacrifice

In her dreams, “I leave the dead beast and find 
the slope where my sister was lost. ‘Aemilia!’ 
I call out. Only silence, I hear. I look down 
and I see a shred of her clothing. I walk along 
finding more, I follow the loose path they form. 
I leave the forest and a steep valley lays 
before me. I see her. She lays far below 
at the bottom.
~
‘Aemilia!’ I cry. I rush to her, almost falling down
into the valley. ‘Aemilia! Wake up!’ I plead. 
But she doesn’t respond. I notice she’s wounded, 
there’s a gash on her arm. I pull out my scarf 
from my bag and wrap it around. I feel her head 
and her chest. She’s weak and cold. ‘I
must make a fire.’ I think.
~
I look in my bag and there’s only my
book to burn. I look up to the forest, but it
is steep and it’ll take too long to reach.
’But I can’t!’ I think. ‘I can’t burn it,
it’s all I have!’ I say. I rip my parts of
my clothes and make a pile. ‘It’s not enough.’
I say.
~
I look up at the forest again and at my sister.
I take her into my lap and hold her. She’s so
cold and my body’s heat isn’t enough. I take
my book, ‘Historium Imperium.’ I open it and
feel my hands across its pages. ‘So much wisdom,
so much power.’ I think. Layers of time and history,
the glory and greatness of the Emprate wrapped 
within and throughout.
~
I linger on it. ‘I won’t.’ I say. I breath on 
my hands and rub them to make them hotter.
I rub my sister, trying to heat her. ‘Wake up,
wake up, Aemilia.’ I ask. I turn her toward me
and hold her tight. ‘Wake up, little sister, 
wake up.’ I repeat. I persist for a few moments
but I know it isn’t working.
~
I hold my book again. ’She’s too cold. There’s
no other way.’ I decide. With great resistance,
I tear pages out and crumble them. I add to the
pile and ready it. I start the fire. I lay down
with my sister as the flames kindle. ‘You’ll be
alright, Aemilia. You’re safe now.’ I whisper.
I kiss her and caress her hair as the flames
burn fiercely.”

Scene: 43 Censor

In her dreams, “‘Aemilia.’ I say softly. ‘Aemilia.’
I repeat. Her eyes open slightly. ‘Caia.’ She says
weakly. ‘Are you okay?’ I ask. ‘I- I- feel sick.’
She stutters. ‘How so?’ I ask. ‘I-I think I got bit.’
She says. I pick her up and look at her. ‘Where?’
I ask. ‘My foot hurts.’ She says. I look at her feet,
I find a bite mark on her heel.
~
‘How do you feel?’ I ask, fearful. ‘Cold.’ She says.
I feel her head, she’s warm. ‘We’ll find something to
eat along the way. That should help.’ I say. I help
her onto my back and we leave. I look behind at the
plains and see a hill. I see a man and others, they
are very far. ‘Mother.’ I think.
~
We travel into the plains and beyond. I see nothing
but grass and small hills. ‘I never knew there was
such vast land out here. Am I beyond the Emprate?’
I wonder. I walk far and into the distance. Nothing
seems to change, it seems so boundless, but free.
~
I look toward my sister. ‘How do you feel?’ I ask.
‘I’m hungry.’ She says. ‘We’ll eat something soon.’
I say. I continue on and up a steer hill. I feel 
my sisters arms loosening. ‘Hold tight!’ I order
and push her up. I climb up and reach the top.
~
I look out and see a deep valley filled with
a cascading and opulent city. ’The capital.’ 
I say. I walk down the great hill into the
city. I see a formal man walking strictly
but dejectedly. I greet him and ask him
to help me. He looks at me curiously.
~
‘What is your name?’ He asks, resolutely.
‘I’m Caia Claudia.’ I say. He hesitates, bewildered.
‘Your mother lied to an imperial censor.’ He declares.
‘What? What did she say?’ I ask. ‘I, an imperial censor,
was ordered by the emperor to find you. But your
mother told me she had no older daughter, and that
her only daughter had gone missing.’ He says.
~
‘What?’ I say. ‘That is what she told me, which
made me highly confused as the emperor was very
direct in his order, for he told me that a terrible
thing had happened and he wanted to speak to you
directly.’ He continues.
~
I think about all of this. ‘When did you come
to my house?’ I ask. ‘It took me sometime to find
your house, but that was a long time ago, a little after
the time when the new recruitment was gone out.’
He says. My eyes begin to water, but I try
to repress and conceal my feelings.
~
‘The emperor desires to speak to you.’ He says.
‘Will you come with me to see him?’ He asks.
I look down. ‘What does the emperor want with
me?’ I think. ‘Even my own mother rejects me,
how can I be of any worth.’ I reflect.
~
‘Do you accept?’ He asks. I hesitate. ‘I- I-
do. I will come.’ I reply. ‘Excellent. Please,
follow me. It won’t take long to get there.’ 
He says.” 

Scene: 44 New Heir

In her dreams, “We enter the imperial castle. They take
my sister to heal her. ‘The emperor sits on his throne. 
Once he is ready you will be escorted in.’ The censor says. 
I sit and wait. I look all around at the marble and stonework. 
Immense crystals hang from above. They glow powerfully with bright energy.
I remember. ‘In the Republic, they mined the crystals until they evaporated
mysteriously. They only seem to appear when needed. Or that’s what they think.’
~
‘He is ready.’ A soldier says and he escorts me in. I enter and I’m shocked.
The floor is paved with crystal bricks, thick marble pillars line the wide path
that leads all the way up to the glowing throne. On the throne, sits the emperor, in
darkened crystal-steel armor, the armor of an emperor. I walk up to the throne, the
emperor sits commandingly with his right hand on his bright scepter. 
I bow and pay homage.
~
‘Leave us, Marcellus.’ The emperor commands, his voice profound. The man leaves.
‘Stand Caia.’ He says, and I stand. ‘Do you know why I’m not at war, Caia.’ He asks.
I try to think. ‘I don’t know, Lord Emperor.’ I say. ‘The war beyond the frontier
has grown strong, but I’m here, not there. The other emperors are marching their
legions now, that it has intensified.’
~
‘Many months ago, I learned of your great achievements. Your ambition.
I sent a censor to bring you here. That you might be assisted in your
efforts. But in that time, I must tell you a horrific thing has happened.
Your father, Caia, is dead.’ He says.
~
‘What.’ I say, breathless. I fall to my knees and begin to cry.
‘Are you sure?’ I say, looking to the floor. ‘Yes, I am.’ He replies.
I weep and cry until I can’t anymore and I feel exhausted.
‘Caia, I know you have faced hardship in your life. I am emperor,
and I reward those who are good with good. Now, I have
a great thing to tell you, a greater purpose than you
could’ve ever imagined.’ He says.
~
He pauses, then stands and walks. ’In the Emprate, the tribunes of cities 
become praetors of districts and the emperor of a province nominates a praetor 
as heir. So when that emperor dies that praetor becomes emperor.’
~
He examines the bookshelf in the wall. ‘But these men, they are noble in the 
beginning, even great at the start. The creation of the nation, the start of 
governance is always most pure because war forces it to be.’ He looks through
a book. 
~
‘However, time and people tend to putrefy the system as they learn its weakness 
and break it open eagerly.’ He waits. ’The master emperor did not make
this system to last forever.’ He remarks, then turns. ‘Nevertheless, Caia, you are
different than them. You have virtue.’ He walks back to his throne.
~
‘Virtue. A purest form of excellence. So many fools seek lesser things.’ He sits.
‘Excellenca pura. Pure excellence, the virtue of virtues. One must become its
absolute embodiment in order to obtain immortal glory.’ He pauses. ‘Now, Caia.
I know that you have lacked your father for most of your life. The imperial scribe
taught you a few things. 
~
But I will teach you everything, I will make you wise, I will make you great.
I will make you the empress. But first you must become an heir.’ He says. 
‘The empress?’ I think. My heart leaps as it has found my true purpose.
‘I will. I will become the greatest that ever was and ever will be.’ 
I proclaim.”

Scene: 45 Their Pursuit

“A taintful pursuit they have begun. How can these
men, these people find one that is glorious enough?
Yet, they continue. A mortiful endeavor in my opinion.
I only stand to see who they uncover, for if they succeed,
what a great man that shall be.”
–Senator Tiberius of the Senatorial Province

Scene: 46 No one

“I knew they would fail. They say, ‘there is no
one, no one that will lead us, not one that is
great enough.’ It is a depressing reality. To
find a pure leader for such a great and majestic
position is near impossible. But I admire their
tenacity.”
–Princeps Atticus of the Senatorial Province

Scene: 47 Nomination

“I must record this most peculiar event.
A nomination of a new heir has occurred.
But one must revile in the newness of it.
A young woman, a nominated heir has be 
chosen.”
–Princeps Atticus of the Senatorial Province

Scene: 48 Pure Heir

“The new heir is so pure. Her tongue speaks
only virtuously and her temper is immeasurably
peaceable. I have never seen a person like this,
a purest form of serenity. Every man can only
admire her.
~
The people were astonished for a moment but then 
their hearts seemed to leap within, ‘This new heir, 
an heir of heirs, an heir better than those before.’ 
I sense their admiration, for even in my own heart,
I feel this deep craving.”
–Princeps Atticus of the Senatorial Province

Scene: 49 Empress

“A truly tragic event has occurred. The people
of the third province weep deeply at this terror.
‘A great one,’ they called him. An archetype of
greatness, even one that could have been sole
emperor.
~
But as her nominating emperor has died in battle
on the frontier, the pure heir has now been seated
as empress. Her wisdom proceeds her and has gone out
before her, and shown us many glimpses of her glory.”
–Princeps Atticus of the Senatorial Province

Scene: 50 Supremess

“It was to be a great day. The empress was superior
and wise beyond all. The people they were moved as before.
They nearly made her: the supremess. A supreme empress over
the Emprate.
~
A grand event, an excellent venture, but the war would not
let us. The Senate’s proconsuls have been defeated, the senatorial
legions destroyed. The other emperors are retreating.
Thus the empress lead the last of the legions to war.”
–Princeps Atticus of the Senatorial Province

Scene: 51 The Final Battle

In her dreams, “I cry profusely. ‘Cornelius! Why did you have to die!’
I say. The Emprate is far below, its brightness now seems dimmer.
‘The darkness. It has taken everything from me.’ I look at my hand, 
the wound darkened. ‘Everything I gain, it steals. 
Why? Where does it come from?’ I question.
~
But the world then shakes violently. And I barely hold onto the mountain.
The Emprate turns dark. ‘What. What’s happening?’ I wonder. I feel
terrible pain across my body. I look at myself, the blackness has 
spread throughout. 
~
I feel a convulsion, like a worm is within me, wrapped around my body. 
I scream in pain as it convulses again. My breath becomes short as 
I feel it compress my chest. ‘I-I can’t die! I must live!’ I think.
And I remember all that happened to me. I remember Aemilia. But it compresses
my chest further and my breath stops.”
~
“As I’ve seen. This evil force consumes sacrifices 
to increase its power. It requires the death of the
innocent to strengthen it and fuel it. Only the destruction
of the good can make it powerful.”
–Princeps Atticus of the Senatorial Province
~
And at last, you the last imperial legate of the Empress,
you sense something incredibly dark and yet there are no legions left
for a dark force to be beyond.
~
But are you truly a legate?

In Battle:

You notice a dark form approach the wall.

The Empress is dead and all of her innocence, 
all of her virtue, 
all of her greatness
is transformed into dark magic. 
And all of that dark magic empowers the dark emperor to the uttermost.

You. 
You are the only one.

Outro:

The dark emperor has been defeated and you have single-handedly 
defeated all of his dark legions. With nothing to fight and with the 
wall needing no defense you rush into the castle and climb up to the Empress’ chamber.
~
You find her dead on her bed.
She lays limp but you take your hand that has been infused with 
all the power of the dark emperor and touch her face. 
You command the power to heal her and it evaporates into her. 
~
You wait.
~
A moment passes.
~
An hour passes.
~
The light in her eyes brightens.
~
She sits up and looks at you. ‘Cornelius?’ She asks.
‘It’s me, Caia.’ You say, softly. ‘Cornelius!’ She leaps, 
throwing her arms around you. She pulls back, her eyes fill with tears.
~
‘I thought you were dead!’ She says, her eyes questioning.
‘I was lost at battle. I had worn the armor of a legate, as my 
councilors advised, to protect me. But after I recovered, 
I realized my legions were retreated. Thus, I tried to return, 
only discovering my path hindered by the enemy.’ You say.
~
‘What has happened? How did you get here? How did you save me?’ She asks.
You explain all that had happened, how you defeated the great dark enemy and used his
power to heal her. But you begin to feel weak within yourself.
‘You’ve saved the Emprate!’ She praises, her eyes filled with admiration.
~
‘I have.’ You say, but for a moment you become dazed. ‘Cornelius!’ 
She exclaims. ‘What’s wrong?’ ‘Caia. You know I cannot return with you. 
You must be empress. I am a dead emperor.’ You say.
~
‘No! You’re not dead.’ She cries.
‘You must be the supremess, Caia.’ You say, as you collapse on the floor.
She gets up and hovers over you. ‘Cornelius. Live!’ She begs.
You tell her to come close.
~
‘Caia, you have imbued within yourself great virtue. 
Now spread that virtue throughout the Emprate.’ You say.
~
‘I will.’ She says. But as she looks at you again, 
she realizes you’ve died. ‘No! Cornelius! No.’ She says.
‘I- I- can’t do it on my own. I’m not great enough.’
She lays down, in shock. ‘I- I- am lost.’ She says
and stares at ceiling until she fades into sleep.
~
In her dreams, “I wake. I rise and find myself
on a narrow path. I get up and feel the sharp
rocks that make up the way. I look over the 
sides and there is only black void. ‘Where am
I?’ I think. I hear something in the distance.
I look and see a form approaching far away.
~
I step back but the rocks pierce my bare feet.
I wince in pain, and soften my steps. The form
is closer now and its steps are loud and harsh.
It looks familiar but it’s still far. ‘Who are you?’
I ask. But it doesn’t reply. ‘Mother?’ I question.
~
It takes shape and I see what it is. It is my
mother, the thief and the beast. They have become
one. They have become a demon. ‘Caia, my love, my
perfect daughter, my purest offspring, where have
you gone? What are you doing? How have you been?’
It asks. ‘What are you?’ I ask in horror. ‘I’m
your mother, as I’ve always been.’ It replies.
~
‘No, you are a demon.’ I say. It draws near but
it is still not close. ‘A demon? What a strange
thing. In the imperial records, demons are
rarely ever mentioned. How wise of you to
have remembered them.’ It says.
~
It is not far now and its looks frighten me.
’Stay away!’ I say. It stops, to my surprise.
‘Why? I am your mother, I haven’t seen you in
so long. You’ve accomplished so much, will you
not let me embrace you and hold you in my arms?’
It asks.
~
‘What–’ It interrupts. ‘I love you, Caia. I always
have. I know deep in your heart you long for
my embrace as you always have. I know I’ve
been harsh on you but I was only trying to improve
you, to help you. Forgive me if I was quite improper
in my way and made many errors. You know that I
was a fool and knew very little.’ It says.
~
‘Please, come to me, my dear.’ It says. It holds
its arms out. ‘Come to me, come into my arms.’ It
asks. I feel strange, my heart yearns for what my
mother never gave me, but it is a demon, it is trying
to fool me. ‘Go away!’ I say.
~
‘W-What?’ It says. ‘Go away, you demon!’ I command.
‘How could say such a thing? I’m your mother.’ It begins
to cry. ‘I know what you are. Your tricks won’t fool me.’
I retort. It weeps and cries profusely. ‘You reject your
own mother. Even when I tried to repent.’ It says. My heart
feels slight pity. ‘I only wanted to change, Caia. That’s
all. To be your mother properly for once.’ It says.
~
I feel sadness. ‘I do wish my mother was different.’
I think. ‘Please, Caia, come to me, help me.’ It says.
I hesitate. ‘It’s not her, it’s a lie.’ I tell myself.
But my heart feels empathy and I take a step. It continues
to cry looking at the ground. I approach slowly
and timidly.
~
I am almost near and it looks up at me. ‘Caia!’ It
says, its face is like my mother’s, it’s beautiful
and prettier than I remember. ‘Mother.’ I say.
It walks toward me and reaches its hand out.
It touches my arm gently.
~
‘I need to tell you something, Caia.’ She says.
‘What is it?’ I ask. ‘I should have killed you
in my womb! Let the birds eat when you were born!
Slit your throat when you were young!’ It screams.
It crushes my arm and it breaks. I scream in pain.
~
It pushes me to ground. My knees are cut by the sharp
path. The demon transforms and transfigures. Its face,
its body crack and break into a new form. I feel
horror and pain, the darkness and void weigh on
me greatly. I feel waterless and dry.
~
I look at the demon and it has transformed into
the dark emperor. ‘When I slayed your father’s legion,
I made him bow down before me. He was frail and weak!
I gave him a choice, worship me or die. He chose
the former and he became my chief legate. Follow
in your father’s footsteps, be wise, be empowered,
worship me and I will make you a goddess!’ He says.
~
‘I- I- wil,’ I think weakly. ‘I- I-I wil- no.’
I can’t. Stop. ‘I- wil- sto,’ I think. I- I
I wil- no -no. I ‘Worship me, Caia. Become
the dark empress.’ He says. ‘I wil- -no’ I say.
‘Speak!’ He says. ‘I w-il -no n-n I.’ I say.
~
‘Speak! And it will be done!’ He orders. I-
I- think to my-self. ‘I- am not weak, I am
strong! I will destroy this evil and death!
He is weak! That is why is screams so loudly
and lies so quickly.’ I stand up with ease
and my wounds heal.
~
‘I am the Supremess Caia Claudia, the most wise,
the most pure, the most excellent! All you 
are is foolishness and lies!’ I shout and in my
hand forms a crystal sword that I stab into
his heart.”  
~
She awakes. ‘I have become great. I have done what
my true father, the Lord Emperor, has told me to do.
And I have achieved pure excellence.’ She declares, 
her face glowing like that of a star.
~
She leaves the castle. She finds the Emprate was left in ruins 
but there were many places that were untouched. Only the capitals 
were partly destroyed and the Senatorial Province obliterated. 
And thus the people saw her and they said, “Let us make her the supremess.” 
~
And so they took her to her province–The Third Imperial Province–and they made 
a new throne for her, one higher than all of the ones before it. And they made 
her a new crown, one greater than all of the ones before it, even greater than 
that of the master emperor. And ceremony was put forth and at the end
~
they gave her title of Supremess and they gave her a new name so 
that her full title and name were the Supremess Cornelia,
the supreme empress over all of the people of Illyica. 
~
And therefore, she was seated on her throne and crowned. 
Then all the people shouted, “Every man is subservient to the Supremess! 
Every man is subservient to the Supremess!” 
As was their custom for their new rulers. For they believed:
~
“All things must be ordered, all things must be delineated,
all things must be subordinate.”
~
And as she was now supremess they discovered that the power 
that healed her made it so she would live for a thousand years 
and thus so she would reign for a thousand years.
~
The End.
~
“The strange thing about dark magic is that when someone kills its 
embodiment all of its power is infused into that destroyer. 
But then it is by principle no longer dark magic, as dark magic
~
requires the death of the innocent, but if one reverses that by 
killing the guilty–and the very guilty at that–one gains whatever 
is the opposite of dark magic. And therefore, gains a great benevolent power.”





































